README.rst, before:

.. -*- mode: rst -*-

|TravisBuild| |Colab| |PythonVersions| |Coveralls| |ReadTheDocs| |LGTM| |Black|

.. |TravisBuild| image:: https://travis-ci.org/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg?branch=master&service=github
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/nkthiebaut/zeugma

.. |Colab| image:: https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg
    :target: https://colab.research.google.com/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma/

.. |PythonVersions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/zeugma.svg
    :target: https://github.com/nkthiebaut/zeugma

.. |Coveralls| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma?branch=master

.. |ReadTheDocs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/zeugma/badge/ 
    :target: https://zeugma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

.. |LGTM| image:: https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/python/g/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg?logo=lgtm
    :target: https://lgtm.com/projects/g/nkthiebaut/zeugma/context:python

.. |Black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

======
Zeugma
======

.. inclusion-marker-do-not-remove

📝 Natural language processing (NLP) utils: word embeddings (Word2Vec, GloVe, FastText, ...) and preprocessing transformers, compatible with `scikit-learn Pipelines <http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline.html>`_. 🛠 Check the `documentation <https://zeugma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ for more information.


Installation
------------

Install package with ``pip install zeugma``.


Examples
--------

Embedding transformers can be either be used with downloaded embeddings (they
all come with a default embedding URL) or trained.

Pretrained embeddings
*********************

As an illustrative example the cosine similarity of the sentences *what is zeugma* and *a figure of speech* is computed using the `GloVe <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/>`_ pretrained embeddings.::

    >>> from zeugma.embeddings import EmbeddingTransformer
    >>> glove = EmbeddingTransformer('glove')
    >>> embeddings = glove.transform(['what is zeugma', 'a figure of speech'])
    >>> from sklearn.metrics.pairwise import cosine_similarity
    >>> cosine_similarity(embeddings)[0, 1]
    0.8721696

Training embeddings
*******************

To train your own Word2Vec embeddings use the `Gensim sklearn API <https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/sklearn_api/w2vmodel.html>`_.


Fine-tuning embeddings
**********************

Embeddings fine tuning (training embeddings with preloaded values) will be implemented in the future.


Other examples
**************

Usage examples are present in the ``examples`` folder.

Additional examples using Zeugma can be found `in some posts of my blog <https://data4thought.com>`_.


Contribute
----------

Feel free to fork this repo and submit a Pull Request. 

Development
***********

The development workflow for this repo is the following:

1. create a virtual environment: ``python -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate``
2. install required packages: ``pip install -r requirements.txt``
3. install the pre-commit hooks: ``pre-commit install``
4. run the test suite with: ``pytest`` from the root folder

Distribution via PyPI
*********************

To upload a new version to PyPI, simply:

1. tag your new version on git: ``git tag -a x.x -m "my tag message"``
2. update the download_url field in the ``setup.py`` file
3. commit, push the code and the tag (``git push origin x.x``), and make a PR
4. Make sure you have a ``.pypirc`` file structured like `this <https://docs.python.org/3.3/distutils/packageindex.html#the-pypirc-file>`_ in your home folder (you can use ``https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/`` for the URL field)
5. once the updated code is present in master run ``python setup.py sdist && twine upload dist/*`` from the root of the package to distribute it.

Building documentation
**********************

To build the documentation locally simply run ``make html`` from the ``docs`` folder.


Bonus: what's a zeugma?
-----------------------
It's a figure of speech: "The act of using a word, particularly an adjective or verb, to apply to more than one noun when its sense is appropriate to only one." (from `Wiktionary <https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/zeugma>`_).

For example, "He lost his wallet and his mind." is a zeugma.

Commit message:

:wrench: upgrade to Gensim 4 (#22)
* :wrench: upgrade to Gensim 4

* :arrow_up: bump package version

* :arrow_up: bump package URL

README.rst, after:

.. -*- mode: rst -*-

|TravisBuild| |Colab| |PythonVersions| |Coveralls| |ReadTheDocs| |LGTM| |Black|

.. |TravisBuild| image:: https://travis-ci.org/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg?branch=master&service=github
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/nkthiebaut/zeugma

.. |Colab| image:: https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg
    :target: https://colab.research.google.com/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma/

.. |PythonVersions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/zeugma.svg
    :target: https://github.com/nkthiebaut/zeugma

.. |Coveralls| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/nkthiebaut/zeugma?branch=master

.. |ReadTheDocs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/zeugma/badge/ 
    :target: https://zeugma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

.. |LGTM| image:: https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/python/g/nkthiebaut/zeugma.svg?logo=lgtm
    :target: https://lgtm.com/projects/g/nkthiebaut/zeugma/context:python

.. |Black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

======
Zeugma
======

.. inclusion-marker-do-not-remove

📝 Natural language processing (NLP) utils: word embeddings (Word2Vec, GloVe, FastText, ...) and preprocessing transformers, compatible with `scikit-learn Pipelines <http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline.html>`_. 🛠 Check the `documentation <https://zeugma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ for more information.


Installation
------------

Install package with ``pip install zeugma``.


Examples
--------

Embedding transformers can be either be used with downloaded embeddings (they
all come with a default embedding URL) or trained.

Pretrained embeddings
*********************

As an illustrative example the cosine similarity of the sentences *what is zeugma* and *a figure of speech* is computed using the `GloVe <https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/>`_ pretrained embeddings.::

    >>> from zeugma.embeddings import EmbeddingTransformer
    >>> glove = EmbeddingTransformer('glove')
    >>> embeddings = glove.transform(['what is zeugma', 'a figure of speech'])
    >>> from sklearn.metrics.pairwise import cosine_similarity
    >>> cosine_similarity(embeddings)[0, 1]
    0.8721696

Training embeddings
*******************

To train your own Word2Vec embeddings use the `Gensim sklearn API <https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/sklearn_api/w2vmodel.html>`_.


Fine-tuning embeddings
**********************

Embeddings fine tuning (training embeddings with preloaded values) will be implemented in the future.


Other examples
**************

Usage examples are present in the ``examples`` folder.

Additional examples using Zeugma can be found `in some posts of my blog <https://data4thought.com>`_.


Contribute
----------

Feel free to fork this repo and submit a Pull Request. 

Development
***********

The development workflow for this repo is the following:

1. create a virtual environment: ``python -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate``
2. install required packages: ``pip install -r requirements.txt``
3. install the pre-commit hooks: ``pre-commit install``
4. install the package itself in editable mode: ``pip install -e .``
5. run the test suite with: ``pytest`` from the root folder

Distribution via PyPI
*********************

To upload a new version to PyPI, simply:

1. tag your new version on git: ``git tag -a x.x -m "my tag message"``
2. update the download_url field in the ``setup.py`` file
3. commit, push the code and the tag (``git push origin x.x``), and make a PR
4. Make sure you have a ``.pypirc`` file structured like `this <https://docs.python.org/3.3/distutils/packageindex.html#the-pypirc-file>`_ in your home folder (you can use ``https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/`` for the URL field)
5. once the updated code is present in master run ``python setup.py sdist && twine upload dist/*`` from the root of the package to distribute it.

Building documentation
**********************

To build the documentation locally simply run ``make html`` from the ``docs`` folder.


Bonus: what's a zeugma?
-----------------------
It's a figure of speech: "The act of using a word, particularly an adjective or verb, to apply to more than one noun when its sense is appropriate to only one." (from `Wiktionary <https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/zeugma>`_).

For example, "He lost his wallet and his mind." is a zeugma.
